sld4-sdk-extensions/third-party-hardware-drivers.md, before:

# Third Party Hardware Drivers

Third Party Hardware Drivers is a GSDK Extension to provide support for third party external hardware.

- **Scaling GSDK functionality with SDK Extension**
   - One-click solution for tested 3rd party sensor boards
   - Developed wrapper can be used, to add not tested boards easily
- **Accelerate Design Phase**
  - Quick and easy integration of 1,100+ devices, manufactured by different board providers
  - 10x faster, than developing individual HW drivers from scratch
- **Customer Self-Serve Support**
  - Easy to start, fast to learn, time-saving
  - Based on 3rd party boards, diverse Applications can be created


![ThirdPartyHwDrvExt](doc/layers.png)

This extension consumes the [mikroSDK Click Plugin](https://github.com/MikroElektronika/mikrosdk_click_v2) for the [mikroSDK](https://github.com/MikroElektronika/mikrosdk_v2) developed by [Mikroe](https://www.mikroe.com/).


**See the [instructions](/application-examples/<docspace-docleaf-version>/ae-getting-started/how-do-you-use-it#adding-sdk-extensions-for-hardware-drivers) of the Section Getting Started for more information.**

## Software Components

The following drivers are tested and integrated into the extension. 

Besides the integrated drivers, it is possible to add additional drivers from the [mikroSDK Click Plugin Repository](https://github.com/MikroElektronika/mikrosdk_click_v2) by using the [Services] -> mikroSDK 2.0 SDK - Peripheral Drivers software components. 
The following drivers implement the required peripheral driver interfaces for the MikroSDK Click plugin.

### **Audio & Voice**
 - CMT_8540S_SMT - Buzz 2 Click (Mikroe)

### **Display & LED**
 - SSD1306 - Micro OLED Breakout (Sparkfun) - I2C
 - SSD1306 - OLED W Click (Mikroe) - SPI

### **Human Machine Interface**
 - CAP1166 - Capacitive Touch 2 Click (Mikroe)

### **Motor Control**
 - LB11685AV - Brushless 16 Click (Mikroe)

### **Sensors**
 - BMA400 - Accel 5 Click (Mikroe)
 - MAXM86161 - Heart Rate 2 Click (Mikroe)
 - SHTC3 - Temp&Hum 9 Click (Mikroe)
 - Type 5 - Pocket Geiger Radiation (Sparkfun)

### **Services**
 - GLIB - OLED Graphics Library
 - mikroSDK 2.0 SDK - Peripheral Drivers
   - Digital I/O
   - I2C
   - PWM
   - SPI

### **Wireless Connectivity**
 - ID-12LA - RFID Reader (Sparkfun) - I2C

Commit message:

Extend documentation for SDK extension components.

sld4-sdk-extensions/third-party-hardware-drivers.md, after:

# Third Party Hardware Drivers

Third Party Hardware Drivers is a GSDK Extension to provide support for third party external hardware.

- **Scaling GSDK functionality with SDK Extension**
   - One-click solution for tested 3rd party sensor boards
   - Developed wrapper can be used, to add not tested boards easily
- **Accelerate Design Phase**
  - Quick and easy integration of 1,100+ devices, manufactured by different board providers
  - 10x faster, than developing individual HW drivers from scratch
- **Customer Self-Serve Support**
  - Easy to start, fast to learn, time-saving
  - Based on 3rd party boards, diverse Applications can be created


![ThirdPartyHwDrvExt](doc/layers.png)

This extension consumes the [mikroSDK Click Plugin](https://github.com/MikroElektronika/mikrosdk_click_v2) for the [mikroSDK](https://github.com/MikroElektronika/mikrosdk_v2) developed by [Mikroe](https://www.mikroe.com/).


**See the [instructions](/application-examples/<docspace-docleaf-version>/ae-getting-started/how-do-you-use-it#adding-sdk-extensions-for-hardware-drivers) of the Section Getting Started for more information.**

## Software Components

The following drivers are tested and integrated into the extension. 

Besides the integrated drivers, it is possible to add additional drivers from the [mikroSDK Click Plugin Repository](https://github.com/MikroElektronika/mikrosdk_click_v2) by using the [Services] -> mikroSDK 2.0 SDK - Peripheral Drivers software components. 
The following drivers implement the required peripheral driver interfaces for the MikroSDK Click plugin.

In general the software components are named in accordance with the following naming convention.

**<IC_NAME> - <BOARD_NAME> (<BOARD_VENDOR>) - \<INTERFACE>**

Where,
  - **IC_NAME** - The name of the integrated circuit on the external board. (eg.: SSD1306) 
  - **BOARD_NAME** - The name of the external board. (OLED W Click) 
  - **BOARD_VENDOR** - External board vendor. (e.g.: Mikroe, Sparkfun, Adafruit, etc.)
  - **INTERFACE** - Optional parameter to indicate the communication interface in case the SDK extension implements multiple drivers for the same device with different interfaces. (e.g.: SPI, I2C)

Although, the drivers mainly developed and tested with the **<BOARD_NAME>** external board in most of the cases they should work with other boards using the same IC too.

 **Example**

 SSD1306 - Micro OLED Breakout (Sparkfun) - I2C driver was developed and tested with Sparkfun Micro OLED Breakout board, however, it can work (it may require changing the I2C address/display resolution in the configuration by the display board) with most of the OLED displays are available on the market controlled by SSD1306 display controller.


### **Audio & Voice**
 - CMT_8540S_SMT - Buzz 2 Click (Mikroe)

### **Display & LED**
 - SSD1306 - Micro OLED Breakout (Sparkfun) - I2C
 - SSD1306 - OLED W Click (Mikroe) - SPI

### **Human Machine Interface**
 - CAP1166 - Capacitive Touch 2 Click (Mikroe)

### **Motor Control**
 - LB11685AV - Brushless 16 Click (Mikroe)

### **Sensors**
 - BMA400 - Accel 5 Click (Mikroe)
 - MAXM86161 - Heart Rate 2 Click (Mikroe)
 - SHTC3 - Temp&Hum 9 Click (Mikroe)
 - Type 5 - Pocket Geiger Radiation (Sparkfun)

### **Services**
 - GLIB - OLED Graphics Library
 - mikroSDK 2.0 SDK - Peripheral Drivers
   - Digital I/O
   - I2C
   - PWM
   - SPI

### **Wireless Connectivity**
 - ID-12LA - RFID Reader (Sparkfun) - I2C
